It is with very great diffidence that I rise to address you, both because I have only once before addressed your lordship's house and because I'm listening to the debate yesterday and today, I feel that other speakers have 10 times the political knowledge and 20 times the experience that has fallen to my lot and that it is an impertinence for me to say anything at all. At the same time, the subject to which I wish to confine my remarks, namely the atomic bomb and its burning on policy is so important and way so heavily upon my mind that I feel almost bound to say something about what it means for the future of mankind. I should like to begin with just a few technical points, which I think are familiar to everybody. The first is that the atomic bomb is of course in its infancy and is quite certain very quickly to become both much more destructive and very much cheaper to produce. Both those points I think we may take a certain then there is another point which was raised by Professor Olafant and that is that it will not be very difficult to spray a countryside with radioactive products which will kill every living thing throughout a wide area, not only human beings but every insect, every sort of thing that lives. And there is a further point which perhaps relates to the somewhat more distant future. As your lordships know, there are in theory two ways of tapping nuclear energy. One is the way which has now been made practicable by breaking up a heavy nucleus into nuclei of medium weight. The other is the way which has not yet been made practicable but which I think will be in time, namely the synthesising of hydrogen atoms to make heavier atoms, helium atoms, or perhaps in the first instance. Night. If it can be affected, there will be a very much greater release of energy than there is in the disintegration of uranium atoms. At present, this process has never been observed, but it is held that it occurs in the sun and in the interior of other stars. It only occurs in nature at temperatures comparable to those you get inside of the sun. The present atomic bomb in exploding produces temperatures which are thought to be about those in the inside of the sun. It is therefore possible that some mechanism analogous to the present atomic bomb could be used to set off this much more violent explosion which would be obtained if one would synthesize heavier elements. All that must take place if our scientific civilization goes on. If it does not bring itself to destruction, all that is bound to happen. We do not want to look at this thing simply from the point of view of the next few years we want to look at it from the point of view of the future of mankind. For a scientific society to continue to exist, or must such a society inevitably bring it. It is a simple question, but... I do not think it is possible to exaggerate the gravity of the possibilities of evil that lie in the utilization of atomic energy. And I go about the streets and see some pools, the British Museum, the houses of Parliament, and the other monuments of our civilization. In my mind's eye, I see a nightmare vision of those buildings as heaps of rubble, with corpses all round them. That is a thing we have got to face, not only in our own country and cities, but throughout the civilized world as a real probability, unless the world will agree to find a way of abolishing war. it is not enough to make war rare. Great and serious war has got to be abolished, because otherwise these things will happen. Your bullish war is of course a very difficult problem. I have no desire to find fault with those who are trying to tackle that problem. I am quite sure I could not do any better. I simply feel that this is a problem that man has got to solve. Otherwise, man will drop out, and the planet will perhaps be happy without us, although we cannot be expected to share that view. I think we have got to find a way of dealing with this. As everybody is aware, the immediate difficulty is to find a way of cooperating with Russia in dealing with it. I think that what the Prime Minister achieved in Washington was probably as much as code at that time be achieved. I do not suppose he could have done any better at that time. I am not one of those who favor the unconditional and immediate revelation to Russia of the exact processes by which the bomb is manufactured. it. I think it is right that conditions should be attacked.