 It is with very great  diffidence that I rise to  address you, both because I have only  once before addressed your Lord  Chip's  house, and because of the listening to the debate yesterday and  today, I feel that other  speakers have ten  times the political  knowledge and  twenty times the experience that has fallen to mine.  The budget is important for me to  say anything at  all. At the same time, the subject to which I wish  to confine my remarks,  namely, the atomic  bomb and its bearing on policy,  is so  important and  way so heavily upon my mind that I feel  almost found to say something about what it means for the future of mankind.  It's just a few  technical points, which I think are  familiar to everybody. The  first is that the atomic bomb is of  course in its  infancy and is quite certain, very quickly, to become both much more destructive and very much  cheaper to produce.  Both those  points I think we may take a certain then there was another point which was  raised by Professor Olafant.  and that is that it will not be very  difficult to spray a  countryside with radioactive  products which will kill  every one of them.  a living thing throughout a wide  area not only human beings but every insect, every sort of thing that lives. And there is  a further point which perhaps relates to the somewhat more distant  future. As your lordships know, there are in theory two  ways of  tapping nuclear energy. One is the way which has now been made practicable by breaking up a heavy nucleus into  nuclei of medium weight.  The other is the way which has  not yet been made practical.  visible, but which I think will be in time, namely the synthesizing of hydrogen atoms to make heavier atoms, helium  atoms, or perhaps in the first instance nitrogen atoms. In the  course of that synthesis, if it can  be affected, there will be a very  much greater release of  energy than there is in the disintegration of  uranium atoms.  At present, this process has never been  observed, but it is held that it  occurs in the sun and in the  the interior of other stars. It only occurs in  nature at temperatures comparable to those you get inside of the sun. The present atomic bomb in exploding produces  temperatures which are thought to  be about those in the  inside of the sun. It is  therefore possible that sun  mechanism and analogous to the present atomic  bomb could be used to set  off as much more violent  explosion which would be obtained if one could  synthesize heavier elements out of hydrogen.  All that must take  place if our scientific civilization goes.  I love the destruction, all that is bound to happen.  We do not want to look at  this thing simply from the point of view  of the next few years. We want to look at  it from the point of  view of the future of mankind.  The  question is a simple one.  Is it  possible for a scientific  society to continue to exist?  Or must such a  society inevitably bring itself?  It is a simple question,  but a very vital one.  I do not think it is possible to  exaggerate the gravity of the  possibilities of evil that lie in the utilisation of atomic energy.  It is like  all about the streets and seats in  the British Museum, the houses of  parliament and the other monuments of our  civilisation. In my mind's  eye I see a nightmare vision of those buildings as  heaps of rubble with corpses  all round them.  That is a thing we have got to  face, not only in our own country and  cities, but throughout the civilised  world as a real  probability and less the world will agree to find a way of  abolishing war.  it is not enough to make war rare, great and serious war has got to be abolished because  otherwise these things are...  Your  a barish war is of course, a very difficult problem. I have no desire to find fault with those who are trying to tackle that problem. I am quite sure I could not do-  I simply feel that this is a  problem that man has got to solve.  Otherwise,  man will drop out, and the planet will  perhaps be happy without us,  although we cannot be expected to share.  I think we have got to find a way of  dealing with this. Has everybody  is  aware, the immediate difficulty is to find a way of cooperating with  Russia in dealing with it.  I think that what the  Prime Minister achieved in  Washington was probably as much as could at that time be achieved. I do not suppose he could have done any better at that time. I am not one of those who favour the unconditional and immediate revelation to Russia of  the exact processes by which the bomb is  manufactured. I think it is right.