 Hello  Lords, it is with very great diffidence that I rise to address you, both because I have only once before addressed your Lordship's House and because of the listening to the debate yesterday and  today, I feel that other speakers  have ten times the political knowledge  and twenty times the experience that has fallen to my lot.  and that it is an imperitinence for me to say anything at all. At the same time the subject to which I wish to confine my remarks namely the atomic bomb and its bearing on policy is so important and weighs so heavily upon my mind that I feel almost bound.  I should like to begin with just a few  technical  points, which I think are familiar to everybody.  The  first is that the atomic bomb is of course in its  infancy and is quite certain  very quickly to become both much more  destructive and very much  keeper to produce. Both those points, I think we may take a  certain, then  there is another point which was raised by  it will not be very difficult to spray a countryside with radioactive products which will kill every living  thing throughout a wide area, not only human  beings but every insect and every sort of thing that  lives. And there is a further point which perhaps relaxes.  relates to the somewhat more distant future. As your Lordships know, there are in theory two ways of tapping nuclear energy. One is the way which has now been made practicable by breaking up a heavy nucleus into nuclei of medium weight. The other is the way which has not yet been made practicable, but which I think will be in time, namely the synthesising of hydrogen atoms to make heavier atoms, helium atoms, or perhaps in the first  instance, nitrogen atoms. In the course of that synthesis, if it can be affected, there will be  a very much greater release of energy than there is in the disintegration of uranium atoms. At present, this process has never been observed, but it is  held that it occurs in the sun and in the interior of other stars. It only occurs in nature, at temperatures  comparable to those you get inside of the sun.  The present atomic bomb  in exploding produces temperatures which are thought to be about those in the inside of the  sun. It eventful possible that some mechanism analogous to the present atomic bomb could be used to set off  this much more violent explosion, which would  be obtained if one could  synthesize heavier elements out of hydrogen. All that must take place if our scientific civilization goes on. If it does not bring itself to destruction, all that is bound to happen.  them. We do not want to look at this thing simply from the point of view of the next few years. We want to look at it from the point of view of the future of mankind. The question is a simple one.  Is it possible for a scientific  society to continue to exist? Or must such a society inevitably bring itself to destruction? It is a simple question,  but a very viable one. I do not think it is possible to exaggerate. The  gravity of the possibilities of evil that lie in the  utilisation of atomic energy. As I go about the streets and see St Paul's, the British Museum, the Houses of Parliament, and the other monuments of our civilisation, in my mind's eye I see a nightmare vision of those buildings as heaps of rubble with corpses all round them. That is a thing we have got to face, not only in our own country and cities, but throughout the  civilised world. As a real probability, unless the  world will agree to find a way of abolishing war. It is not enough to make war rare.  Great and serious war has got to be abolished, because otherwise these things...  To abolish war is of  course a very difficult problem. I have no desire to find fault with those who are trying to tackle that problem. I am quite sure I could not do  any better. I simply feel that this is a  problem that man has got to  solve otherwise man will drop out and the planet will perhaps be happier without us although we cannot be expected to share that view. I think we have got to find a way of dealing with this. As everybody is aware the immediate difficulty is to find a way of cooperating with Russia in dealing with it. I think that what the Prime Minister achieved in Washington was probably as much as could at that time be achieved. I do not suppose he could. I could have done any better at that time. I am not one of those who favor the ongoing. I am not one.